# Salesforce CLI v41 Release Notes

Here are the new and changed features in recent updates of the Salesforce CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx version` to display the version of the Salesforce CLI installed on your computer. Run `sfdx plugins --core` to display the version of the installed `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx update` to update both the CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in to the latest available version.

**Note:** You might run into these or similar exceptions when you update to a newer version of the plug-in. The exceptions don’t affect the update so you can safely ignore them.

1. `TypeError: Class extends value undefined is not a constructor or null`
1. `Error: Cannot find module ‘c:\Users\&lt;user&gt;\AppData\Local\sfdx\client\bin\run’`

## 41.18.3 (January 25, 2018)

1. The `force:doc:commands:display` command spawns fewer processes. Previously, the command would sometimes use too many system resources and fail.
1. We've fixed `force:mdapi:convert` to correctly convert individual subcomponents of CustomObjects into Salesforce DX format. As a result, `force:source:push` also correctly pushes custom fields or list views (or any individual component of CustomObject) to the scratch org if this CustomObject already exists in the org.
1. The `force:doc` commands show up regardless of how you update the `salesforcedx` plug-in.
1. We've improved the performance of `force:source:push` so that it uses cached elements when possible.
1. If you install the `salesforcedx` plug-in using the `plugins:install` command, you no longer get a warning about the plug-in not being signed.
1. (Windows) The `sfdx` command uses a case-insensitive comparison when comparing pathnames.

## 41.17.0 (January 18, 2018)

1. We've enhanced the `sfdx-project.json` schema so that validation catches the following errors:
   1. Misspelled or undefined attributes, such as `ddependencies` (instead of `dependencies`.)
   1. Missing required attributes when creating a second-generation package, such as `id`, `path`, `packageName`, and `packageBuilder`.
1. You can now push a renamed ApexClass to a scratch org.
1. The `force:source:push|pull|status` commands run faster when pushing or pulling additional items after the initial push|pull to a scratch org.

## 41.16.5 (January 11, 2018)

1. The `force:doc:commands:list --usage` command displays help for `force:lightning:lint`.
1. (Windows only) Pulling reports created in scratch orgs works correctly. If you create a report in a scratch org and then run `force:source:pull`, you see the report pulled to your project directory.
1. The `force:mdapi:convert` command correctly detects when CustomObject and CustomObjectTranslation objects are duplicated rather than changed. For example, let’s say you run `force:source:convert` to generate Metadata API-formatted source, alter a field or custom object attribute in an `*.object` file, and then run `force:mdapi:convert` on the directory. The command creates `*.dup` files for the custom field and custom object container files. Previously the command would incorrectly mark them as changed.
1. If network issues cause the CLI plugin installation to fail, the error message describes the issue clearly and provides useful information.
1. The `--externalid` parameter of `force:data:bulk:upsert` is required.
1. The `--triggerevents` parameter of `force:apex:trigger:create` accepts the following new values:
   1. `before update`: Fire the trigger before an update event.
   1. `after update`: Fire the trigger after an update event.

## 41.12.0 (December 14, 2017)

1. The `--where` and `--usetoolingapi` parameters of the `force:data:record:*` commands work together correctly. Previously, some combinations of parameters didn’t work. For example, if you also specified the `--sobjecttype TraceFlag` parameter, the command would incorrectly return `ERROR: sObject type 'TraceFlag' is not supported`.
1. The `force:project:create` command generates a sample `.forceignore` file in the project directory.
1. The `force:mdapi:convert` command correctly fails when converting a metadata entity, such as ApexClass, that requires both a content (`*.cls`) and metadata (`*.cls-meta.xml`) file but one is missing from the metadata API source directory. Previously, the command would succeed, but you’d later get an error when running `force:source:push`.

## 41.11.0 (December 7, 2017)

1. Use the new `force:apex:trigger:create` command to create an Apex trigger.
1. The `force:lightning:app:create` command adds two new files to the generated Lightning bundle: `&lt;appname&gt;.svg` and `&lt;appname&gt;.auradoc`.
1. The `force:lightning:component:create` command adds three new files to the generated Lightning bundle: `&lt;componentname&gt;.svg`, `&lt;componentname&gt;.auradoc`, and `&lt;componentname&gt;.design`.

## 41.10.0 (November 30, 2017)

1. The `force:doc:commands:list` command has a new parameter, `--usage`, which lists the docopt usage strings for all `salesforcedx` commands.
1. The `force:data:soql:query` command has a new parameter, `--resultformat`, for specifying the output format of the query results.
1. You can set the `--wait` parameter of `force:mdapi:deploy`, `mdapi:deploy:report`, `mdapi:retrieve`, and `mdapi:retrieve:report` to 0 so that the CLI returns immediately and does not perform a status request.
1. When you execute `force:apex:test:run`, Apex pre-compilation is now turned off by default. Use the `SFDX_PRECOMPILE_ENABLE=true` environment variable to turn pre-compilation on.

## 41.8.7 (November 16, 2017)

1. The `generatePassword` property of a user definition file used by `force:user:create` now correctly accepts a Boolean value.

   ```json
   {
     &quot;generatePassword&quot;: true
   }
   ```

## 41.6.0 (November 2, 2017)

1. If the `force:source:push|pull` commands run into a conflict, the output messages suggest how to fix the problem.
1. The `force:source:convert|pull` commands convert and pull all folders, including those that are empty.

## 41.5.2 (October 26, 2017)

1. The `force:mdapi:deploy:report` command reports the status of the most recently run deploy job when you run the command without a `--jobid` parameter.
1. The `force:mdapi:retrieve:report` command reports the status of the most recently run retrieve job when you run the command without a `--jobid` parameter.
1. The `force:source:push|pull` commands support WaveXmd components.
1. The `force:source:*` commands correctly track conflicts when you make changes to components within an AuraDefinitionBundle component.
1. The `force:org:create` command correctly accepts a value of 30 for the `--durationdays` parameter.

## 41.4.1 (October 19, 2017)

1. The `force:source:convert` command generates a `package.xml` that correctly deploys workflows.
