# Salesforce DX CLI v42 Release Notes

Here are the new and changed features in recent updates of the Salesforce CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx version` to display the version of the Salesforce CLI installed on your computer. Run `sfdx plugins --core` to display the version of the installed `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx update` to update both the CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in to the latest available version.

[Click here for the v41 release notes.](./v41.md)

## 42.18.0 (May 31, 2018)

1. NEW: We prematurely announced the suspension of the locked packages pilot. The command options for locked packages will be removed in CLI v43.2.0.
1. FIX: We fixed an error where `force:source:push` was dropping the XML namespace if the original metadata was converted using `force:mdapi:convert`. The error message looked something like this:

   `Error parsing file: The prefix "xsi" for attribute "xsi:nil" associated with an element type "blockId" is not bound.`

1. FIX: We fixed a bug so that `force:source:convert` escapes special characters, including double quotes.
1. FIX: When running `force:data:soql:query`, the query results were incorrect if you had a lookup relationship with a null value.

## 42.17.0 (May 23, 2018)

1. CHANGE: If installing the Salesforce CLI on Windows for the first time, Windows Defender displays a warning. This message is expected because we updated the installer's code signing certificate. Click <strong>Run anyway</strong> to ignore this message.
1. FIX: Deleting a custom object translation directory was causing an error during `source:push`.
1. FIX: We fixed a bug so that `source:convert` escapes special characters.
1. FIX: The code coverage results when running all Apex tests in the Developer Console were different from the results that were reported when running `apex:test:run` or `apex:test:report`. We are providing more useful command output:

1. Test run coverage - Percentage of code coverage as exercised by the tests.
1. Org-wide coverage - Percentage of code coverage for the entire org, including classes and triggers not exercised by the tests.

## 42.16.0 (May 17, 2018)

1. We didn't release a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 42.15.0 (May 10, 2018)

1. FIX: Running `sfdx plugin` produces an error. The correct command is `sfdx plugins`.
1. FIX: You can install plug-ins that contain npm scoped packages.
1. FIX: You can now use a debugger to step through the plug-in generator code.
1. FIX: We improved the schema validation error message if you don't specify a valid plan file when running `force:data:import -p`.
1. CHANGE: To support plug-in development, we added a plugins section to the `sfdx-project.json` file where you'll add configuration values and settings for your plug-in.

   ```json
   "plugins": {
      "yourPluginName": {
         "timeOutValue": "2"
      }
   }
   ```

   Here's an example of the code you'll use to access the properties:

   ```javascript
   import { Project, SfdxProjectJson } from '@salesforce/core'

   const project: Project = await Project.resolve(process.cwd());
   const sfdxProject: SfdxProjectJson = await project.retrieveSfdxProjectJson();
   const pluginSettings: any = sfdxProject.get('plugins');
   this.ux.log(`timeOutValue: ${pluginSettings.yourPluginName.timeOutValue}`);
   ```

## 42.14.0 (May 3, 2018)

1. NEW: Source status tracking is now available for Lightning Experience themes.
1. CHANGE: We no longer support installing the Salesforce CLI on the Windows 10 Subsystem for Linux. The Salesforce CLI works best within the native Windows command prompt (`cmd.exe`) and the Microsoft Powershell.
1. FIX: Profiles whose names contain encoded characters are now respected in `.forceignore`.
1. FIX: We've improved the performance of `force:source:convert` for source that contains profiles.

## 42.13.0 (April 26, 2018)

1. CHANGE: We improved the connection types for generated plug-ins. For existing generated plug-ins, if you decide to update to the latest `@salesforce/command` library, update your `tsconfig.json` file.
   * Run this command in your generated plug-in:
      `yarn add --dev @types/jsforce`
   * Remove these lines from `tsconfig.json`:

      ```json
      "baseUrl": "./",
      "paths" : {
         "*" : ["./node_modules/@salesforce/core/typings/*"]
      }
      ```

1. FIX: You can install plug-ins that contain npm scoped packages.
1. FIX: Running `source:status` no longer causes the initial `source:push` to fail if some source folders were deleted.
1. FIX: We fixed some other minor "under-the-hood" bugs.

## 42.12.0 (April 19, 2018)

1. CHANGE: The new v6 Linux installer tarballs' root directories are versioned and change with every release. To keep the directory name consistent (especially important for CI use cases):
   1. Get one of these tarballs:
      * `wget https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx-linux-amd64.tar.xz`
      * `wget https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx-linux-386.tar.xz`
   1. `mkdir sfdx`
   1. Extract the files for your tarball version:
      * `tar xJf sfdx-linux-amd64.tar.xz -C sfdx --strip-components 1`
      * `tar xJf sfdx-linux-386.tar.xz -C sfdx --strip-components 1`
   1. Run `./sfdx/install`
1. FIX: When creating a second-generation package using `package2:version:create`, permissions specified in a profile weren't being set correctly during package creation. We fixed this issue.

## 42.11.0 (April 12, 2018)

1. NEW: We announced the Salesforce Plugin Generator at TrailheaDX but it was officially released with version 42.8.0. Go to that section for details.
1. CHANGE: When you install the Salesforce CLI on Windows, we no longer install Git. Salesforce CLI no longer depends on Git.

## 42.10.0 (April 5, 2018)

1. FIX: We fixed the formatting for the error message when creating a scratch org fails.

## 42.9.0 (March 29, 2018)

1. No CLI patch this week. Come by and see us at the Salesforce DX booth in the Developer Forest at TrailheaDX!

## 42.8.0 (March 22, 2018)

1. NEW: We released the Salesforce Plugin Generator (Beta) that you can use to build plugins for the Salesforce CLI. The generated sfdx plugin and command are built on top of the oclif cli framework. See [Salesforce Plugin Generator](https://github.com/forcedotcom/sfdx-plugin-generate) for more information.
1. FIX: We fixed some very minor "under-the-hood" bugs.

## 42.7.0 (March 15, 2018)

1. NEW: We added the `-r | --noprompt` flag to `force:package:install`, which allows Remote Site Settings and Content Security Policy websites to send or receive data without confirmation.
1. FIX: We fixed a bug where Apex tests were hanging, which caused the CLI to return a socket timeout error.

## 42.6.0 (March 8, 2018)

1. FIX: We fixed some very minor "under-the-hood" bugs.

## 42.5.0 (March 1, 2018)

1. NEW: Use the `force:apex:log:get` command to fetch the specified log or given number of most recent logs from your default scratch org.
1. NEW: Use the `force:apex:log:tail` command to turn on debug logging and output logs in the terminal. You can also pipe debug logs to a file.
1. CHANGE: We improved the error message for `force:user:password:generate` to specify the required org preference.
1. CHANGE: We are removing the `--buildinstance` parameter for `force:package2:version:create`. We unintentionally exposed this internal parameter.
1. FIX: When you delete a folder, then run `force:source:push`, both the folder and its corresponding metadata file (`-meta.xml`) are deleted.
1. FIX: The `--json` flag for `force:apex:log:get` now properly returns the debug log.
1. FIX: We fixed the cryptic error message when running `force:org:open` with an access token.

## 42.4.0 (February 22, 2018)

1. The output of `sfdx force:apex:test:run --resultsformat human` includes a new section: `=== Failures`. This section includes stack traces for failed tests. In [Salesforce Extensions for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=salesforce.salesforcedx-vscode), these stack traces are active links to lines of your code.
1. We made some improvements to the `force:apex:test:run` command.
   1. `force:apex:test:run` supports the `-w` | `--wait` parameter, but previously this option wasn't displayed in the command's `--help` output. The parameter now shows up in the help.
   1. For customers with long-running Apex tests, we added an extra status check before the `force:apex:test:run` command times out.
1. We fixed a couple of bugs on Windows.
   1. The `.forceignore` file is now respected consistently. We received a report that Windows users were having issues with this file in the [Trailblazer Community](https://success.salesforce.com/0D53A00003Q6Iti).
   1. You can run `sfdx force:source:push` without `Path must be a string` errors, even when your project's filepaths contain forward slashes.
1. We fixed a bug that prevented usernames with only one character before the `@` sign from appearing in the `force:org:list` output.
1. We fixed an issue (reported in the [Trailblazer Community](https://success.salesforce.com/0D53A00003PV6bY)) that caused an error when you ran `sfdx force:auth:web:login -i ...` and specified a `clientSecret`: `Cannot start the OAuth redirect server on port Error`. This issue was caused by a capitalization mis-match in our code. In your `sfdx-project.json` file, the correct capitalization, `oauthLocalPort`, is now respected.

## 42.3.0 (February 15, 2018)

1. We fixed a bug that was preventing `force:apex:test:run` from honoring the `-y` | `--synchronous` flag when you provided a `-t` | `--tests` parameter. You can now use these parameters together to synchronously run individual Apex test methods from a single class.
1. We fixed a bug that caused deployment errors when your `.forceignore` file referenced all files in a subdirectory using `**` for some metadata types. Previously, including these references in your `.forceignore` file caused errors such as `Unable to load Lightning Component Source for js://c.hello_world: Invalid suffix: test.` and `In field: tab - no CustomTab named hello_world was found`.

## 42.2.1 (February 10, 2018)

Welcome to the first release of the Salesforce CLI v42 in Spring '18. We have several new commands and parameters, as well as some changes to existing commands and parameters. Read all about it in the [Salesforce Release Notes](http://releasenotes.docs.salesforce.com/en-us/spring18/release-notes/rn_sf_cli.htm). Here's what's changed.

### New Commands

* `force:apex:trigger:create`

   Creates skeleton Apex trigger source files.
* `force:auth:logout`

   Logs you out of orgs that you previously authorized.

* `force:package2:update`

   Updates a second-generation package.

### Changed Commands

* `force:project:create`

   Generates a sample `.forceignore` file in your new project.

### New Parameters

* `force:apex:test:run`: `-t` | `--tests`

   Runs individual methods of Apex test classes.

* `force:apex:test:run`: `-y` | `--synchronous`

   Runs tests from a single Apex class synchronously.

* `force:schema:sobject:describe`: `-t` | `--usetoolingapi`

   Executes with Tooling API.

* `force:package2:version:create`: `-s` | `--buildinstance`

   The instance where the package version is created, for example, NA50.

* `force:package2:version:create`: `-e` | `--nonamespace`

   Creates the package with no namespace.

* `force:package2:version:update`: `-p` | `--noprompt`

   No prompt to confirm setting the package version as released.

* `force:data:record:create`, `force:data:record:delete`, `force:data:record:get`, `force:data:record:update`, and `force:data:soql:query`: `--perfloglevel` (no short name)

   Gets data on API performance metrics from the server.

### Changed Parameters

* `force:data:bulk:upsert`: `-i` | `--externalid`

   Changed from being optional to required.

### Installation and Configuration Changes

The salesforcedx plug-in is bundled with the CLI.

When you install the CLI, you also get the plug-in. To check the version of the installed core salesforcedx plug-in, use the --core parameter:

`sfdx plugins --core`

The `SFDX_DISABLE_ENCRYPTION` environment variable is no longer supported.

The variable was deprecated in the previous release.
