# Salesforce CLI v43 Release Notes

Here are the new and changed features in recent updates of the Salesforce CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx version` to display the version of the Salesforce CLI installed on your computer. Run `sfdx plugins --core` to display the version of the installed `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx update` to update both the CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in to the latest available version.

**Note:** As a beta feature, Second-Generation Packaging is a preview and isn't part of the "Services" under your master subscription agreement with Salesforce. Use this feature at your sole discretion, and make your purchase decisions only on the basis of generally available products and features. Salesforce doesn't guarantee general availability of this feature within any particular time frame or at all, and we can discontinue it at any time. This feature is for evaluation purposes only, not for production use. It's offered as is and isn't supported, and Salesforce has no liability for any harm or damage arising out of or in connection with it. All restrictions, Salesforce reservation of rights, obligations concerning the Services, and terms for related Non-Salesforce Applications and Content apply equally to your use of this feature. You can provide feedback and suggestions for second-generation packaging in the [Packaging 2 Beta](https://success.salesforce.com/_ui/core/chatter/groups/GroupProfilePage?g=0F93A000000Lg5U) group in the Trailblazer Community.

[Click here for the v42 release notes.](./v42.md)

## 43.18.0 (September 27, 2018)

1. We aren't going to release a Salesforce CLI patch this week. Stop by and see us at the Salesforce DX booths at Dreamforce!

## 43.17.0 (September 20, 2018)

1. FIX: We fixed a bug in the Salesforce Plugin Generator that was causing the test suite to fail silently.

## 43.16.0 (September 13, 2018)

1. We didn't release a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 43.15.0 (September 6, 2018)

1. We didn't release a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 43.14.0 (August 30, 2018)

1. FIX: We fixed some minor under-the-hood bugs.

## 43.13.0 (August 23, 2018)

1. We didn't release a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 43.12.0 (August 16, 2018)

1. FIX: `sfdx force:mdapi:convert` successfully converts Analytics templates that contain images.

## 43.11.0 (August 9, 2018)

1. FIX: `sfdx force:source:pull` retrieves Analytics templates even if they contain datasets.
1. FIX: `sfdx force:mdapi:convert` places `waveTemplate` files into the proper nested directories: a `dashboards` directory, an `external-files` directory, and so on. Previously, all `waveTemplate` files were placed in the same directory.

## 43.10.0 (August 2, 2018)

1. FIX: We fixed some minor under-the-hood bugs.

## 43.9.0 (July 26, 2018)

1. CHANGE: We updated the `--help` output to indicate which commands you must run from within a Salesforce DX project directory.
1. CHANGE: The output is easier to read when you run `force:doc:commands:list`, especially for commands with deprecation warnings.

## 43.8.0 (July 19, 2018)

1. FIX: The column output is not repeated when you indicate a child relationship when running `data:soql:query`.

## 43.7.0 (July 12, 2018)

1. CHANGE: If a metadata name has special characters (such as forward slashes, backslashes, quotation marks), we encode the file name on the local file system for all operating systems. For example, if you pull a custom profile called `Custom: Marketing Profile`, the colon is encoded in the resulting file name.
   `Custom%3A Marketing Profile.profile-meta.xml`
   If you reference a file name with special characters in `.forceignore`, use the encoded file name.
1. FIX: When running `force:source:pull` on Windows, custom profiles are pulled correctly.
1. FIX: You can indicate a package version with a build number when defining a dependent package in the `sfdx-project.json` file. Previously, you had to indicate the `LATEST` keyword as the build number.

   ```json
   "dependencies": [
   {
       "package": "0Hoxxx",
       "versionNumber": "1.1.0.3"
   }],
   ```

## 43.6.0 (July 5, 2018)

1. FIX: We fixed some minor under-the-hood bugs.

## 43.5.1 (July 2, 2018)

1. FIX: Deployment errors for `force:source:push` show the project path.

## 43.5.0 (June 28, 2018)

1. CHANGE: For several `force:package` commands, we updated and improved the command `--help` and error messages.
1. CHANGE: When running `force:package:create`, we ignore the trailing slash (/) for the `--path` parameter. For example, the CLI treats both `force-app` and `force-app/` the same.
1. FIX: When creating a layout in a scratch org and pulling it to your local project, the layout metadata file (`-meta.xml`) is placed in the correct local directory, `&lt;package_dir&gt;/main/default/layouts`.
1. FIX: The `force:mdapi:convert` command escapes double quotes when converting to Salesforce DX format.
1. FIX: All environment variables override configuration variables, including `SFDX_API_VERSION`.

## 43.4.0 (June 21, 2018)

1. CHANGE: We changed the output for `force:package:version:list`. The output includes a new column that indicates whether the package version is protected by an installation key. To view the Package Version ID and Installation URL information, run the command with the `--verbose` parameter.
1. CHANGE: Where you run the `force:package:install` and `force:package:uninstall` commands matter depending on whether you indicate a package version ID (04t) or package version alias. If using the package version ID, you can run the commands outside of a Salesforce DX project. If using the package alias, run the commands from within a Salesforce DX project. The `sfdx-project.json` file is required to map the package version alias to its package version ID.

## 43.3.0 (June 14, 2018)

1. CHANGE: We collect usage information, user environment, and crash reports for the purposes of providing services or functions that are relevant to use of the Salesforce CLI and for product improvements.
1. CHANGE: If you use package version IDs instead of aliases, you can now use 04t package IDs for all `force:package:version` commands instead of a mix of 04t (subscriber package version) and 05i (package version) IDs. However, we strongly recommend using aliases for all `force:package` commands and in the `sfdx-project.json` file.
   1. The output displays only the 04t IDs for `package:version:create`, `package:version:update`, `package:version:list`, and `package:version:report`.
   1. You can use either 04t or 05i IDs when running `package:version:update`, `package:version:promote`, or `package:version:report`.
   1. You can use either 04t or 05i IDs as the ancestor ID in the `sfdx-project.json` file.
   1. You can view 05i IDs for `package:version:list` and `package:version:report` if you use the `--verbose` parameter.
1. CHANGE: The `--path | -r` parameter for `force:package:create` is required.
1. CHANGE: We renamed several parameters for `force:package:version:update` to make them consistent with the parameters for `force:package:version:create`.
   1. `--name | -n` is now `--versionname | -a`
   1. `--description | -d` is now `--versiondescription | -e`
   1. `--package2versionid | -i` is now `--package | -p`
1. FIX: The Summer '18 release notes were updated to indicate the correct short flag for `force:package:create --path`. It's `-r`.
1. FIX: We improved the behavior for source tracking when you delete an object's `.object-meta.xml` file.
   1. If you delete the `.object-meta.xml` file for a custom object, and your local source contains fine-grained items for the custom object, you see an error message. Custom objects require a corresponding metadata file.
   1. If you delete the `.object-meta.xml` file for a custom object and its associated decomposed files, but leave empty directories in your local project for those objects, the CLI deletes the directories for you.
   1. If you delete the `.object-meta.xml` file for a standard object, the `force:source` commands run successfully. The `.object-meta.xml` file is not required for standard objects.

## 43.2.9 (June 9, 2018)

Welcome to the first release of the Salesforce CLI v43 in Summer '18. We have several new commands and parameters, as well as some changes to existing commands and parameters. Read all about it in the [Salesforce Release Notes](http://releasenotes.docs.salesforce.com/en-us/summer18/release-notes/rn_sf_cli.htm). Here's what's changed.

### New Commands

* `plugins:generate`

   Use the Salesforce Plugin Generator to build plug-ins for the Salesforce CLI. The generated sfdx plug-in and command are built on top of the oclif cli framework. See https://github.com/forcedotcom/sfdx-plugin-generate for more information.
* `force:apex:log:get`

   Use this command to fetch the specified debug log or given number of most recent logs from your default scratch org.
* `force:apex:log:tail`

   Use this command to turn on debug logging and output logs in the terminal. You can also pipe debug logs to a file.

### Changed Commands

* `force:package` Commands Replace `force:package2` Commands

   We are streamlining all second-generation packaging commands and adding several new parameters that make creating packages easier and more intuitive. You can continue to use the `force:package2` commands until they are deprecated in Winter '19. The `force:package1` commands, which you use to create first-generation package versions, are unchanged. See [Salesforce Release Notes](http://releasenotes.docs.salesforce.com/en-us/summer18/release-notes/rn_sfdx_packaging_commands.htm) for details.
* `force:source` Commands

   Source status tracking is now available for Lightning Experience themes.

### New Parameters

`force:package:install -r | --noprompt`
This flag allows Remote Site Settings and Content Security Policy websites to send or receive data without confirmation.

### Changed Parameters

* `force:apex:test:run -c | --codecoverage`

   To improve performance, we calculate and retrieve code coverage results for `force:apex:test:run` only when you supply the `-c | --codecoverage` flag.
* `sfdx force:apex:test:run --resultsformat human`

   The output now includes a new section: `=== Failures`. This section includes stack traces for failed tests. In [Salesforce Extensions for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=salesforce.salesforcedx-vscode), these stack traces are active links to lines of your code.

* `force:package2:version:create --buildinstance`

   We removed this parameter because it is for internal use only and was unintentionally exposed.

### Installation and Configuration Changes

#### v6 Linux Tarballs' Root Directories Are Versioned

The new v6 Linux installer tarballs' root directories are versioned and change with every release. To keep the directory name consistent (especially important for CI use cases):

* Get one of these tarballs:

   `wget https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx-linux-amd64.tar.xz`
   `wget https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx-linux-386.tar.xz`

* Create an `sfdx` folder:

   `mkdir sfdx`

* Extract the files for your tarball version:

   `tar xJf sfdx-linux-amd64.tar.xz -C sfdx --strip-components`
   `tar xJf sfdx-linux-386.tar.xz -C sfdx --strip-components 1`

* Run `./sfdx/install`.

#### Windows 10 Subsystem for Linux

We no longer support installing the Salesforce CLI on the Windows 10 Subsystem for Linux. The Salesforce CLI works best within the native Windows command prompt (cmd.exe) and the Microsoft Powershell.

#### Windows Installer Updates

When you install the Salesforce CLI on Windows, we no longer install Git. Salesforce CLI no longer depends on Git.

### Salesforce Plugin Generator (Beta)

We released the Salesforce Plugin Generator (Beta) that you can use to build plug-ins for the Salesforce CLI. The generated sfdx plug-in and command are built on top of the Open CLI Framework. See [Salesforce Plugin Generator](https://github.com/forcedotcom/sfdx-plugin-generate) for more information.

#### Plug-in Development Support

To support plug-in development, we added a plugins section to the `sfdx-project.json` file. In this section, add configuration values and settings for your plug-in.

```json
"plugins": {
    "yourPluginName": {
      "timeOutValue": "2"
    }
}
```

Here's an example of the code you use to access the properties:

```javascript
import { Project, SfdxProjectJson } from '@salesforce/core'

const project: Project = await Project.resolve(process.cwd());
const sfdxProject: SfdxProjectJson = await project.retrieveSfdxProjectJson();
const pluginSettings: any = sfdxProject.get('plugins');
this.ux.log('timeOutValue: ${pluginSettings.yourPluginName.timeOutValue}');
```

#### Improved Connection Types for Generated Plug-ins

For existing generated plug-ins, if you decide to update to the latest `@salesforce/command` library, update your `tsconfig.json` file.

* Run this command in your generated plug-in:
   `yarn add --dev @types/jsforce`
* Remove these lines from `tsconfig.json`:

   ```json
   "baseUrl": "./",
   "paths" : {
      "*" : ["./node_modules/@salesforce/core/typings/*"]
   }
   ```
