# Salesforce CLI v44 Release Notes

Here are the new and changed features in recent updates of the Salesforce CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx version` to display the version of the Salesforce CLI installed on your computer. Run `sfdx plugins --core` to display the version of the installed `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx update` to update both the CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in to the latest available version.

**Note:** As a beta feature, second-generation managed packages and non-source-tracked org commands are a preview and aren't part of the "Services" under your master subscription agreement with Salesforce. Use these features at your sole discretion, and make your purchase decisions only on the basis of generally available products and features. Salesforce doesn't guarantee general availability of these features within any particular time frame or at all, and we can discontinue them at any time. These features are for evaluation purposes only, not for production use. They're offered as is and aren't supported, and Salesforce has no liability for any harm or damage arising out of or in connection with them. All restrictions, Salesforce reservation of rights, obligations concerning the Services, and terms for related Non-Salesforce Applications and Content apply equally to your use of these features. You can provide feedback and suggestions for second-generation managed packages in the [Packaging 2 Beta](https://success.salesforce.com/_ui/core/chatter/groups/GroupProfilePage?g=0F93A000000Lg5U) group in the Trailblazer Community. You can provide feedback and suggestions for non-source-tracked org commands in the [Salesforce DX](https://success.salesforce.com/_ui/core/chatter/groups/GroupProfilePage?g=0F93A000000HTp1) group in the Trailblazer Community.

**Note:** We provide Scratch Org Snapshot to selected customers through a pilot program that requires agreement to specific terms and conditions. To be nominated to participate in the program, contact Salesforce. Pilot programs are subject to change, and we can't guarantee acceptance. Scratch Org Snapshot isn't generally available unless or until Salesforce announces its general availability in documentation or in press releases or public statements. We can't guarantee general availability within any particular time frame or at all. Make your purchase decisions only on the basis of generally available products and features. For information on enabling this feature in your org, contact Salesforce.

[Click here for the v43 release notes.](./v43.md)

## 44.18.0 (January 31, 2019)

1. FIX: Salesforce CLI uses a new connected app as the default for web login. All existing authorized orgs will continue to work. This fix resolves this [known issue](https://success.salesforce.com/issues_view?id=a1p3A000000BMnj):

   ```text
   Scratch Org sign up is failing with an error "We encountered a problem while
   attempting to configure and approve the Connected App for your org."
   ```

1. FIX: When running `force:source:pull`, we include the `.xml` extension for XML static resources (XML MIME types).

## 44.17.0 (January 24, 2019)

1. FIX: We fixed an issue where users received an expired access token error after:
   1. Authorizing a Dev Hub org using the JWT-based flow
   1. Creating a scratch org
   1. Running `force:user:create`
   1. Running a CLI command that requires authorization, such as `force:org:open`

   The error message starts with this text:

   ```text
   ERROR: This org appears to have a problem with its OAuth configuration.
   Reason: invalid_grant - expired access/refresh token
   ```

## 44.16.0 (January 17, 2019)

1. FIX: We fixed some minor under-the-hood bugs.

## 44.15.0 (January 10, 2019)

1. FIX: We fixed some minor under-the-hood bugs.

## 44.14.0 (January 3, 2019)

1. We didn't release a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 44.13.0 (December 27, 2018)

1. We didn't release a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 44.12.0 (December 20, 2018)

1. We didn't release a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 44.11.0 (December 13, 2018)

1. FIX: You no longer see a socket connection reset when you execute a status query on 1,300 or more Apex class IDs. The connection reset resulted in this error:

   ```text
   Error: read ECONNRESET
   ```

## 44.10.0 (December 6, 2018)

1. CHANGE: `force:package:install` includes an optional new `--upgradetype | -t &lt;upgradetype&gt;` parameter. For package upgrades, you can now specify options for deprecation or deletion of removed components. To delete components that can be safely deleted and deprecate the others, specify `--upgradetype Mixed` (the default). To deprecate all removed components, specify `--upgradetype DeprecateOnly`.

## 44.9.0 (November 29, 2018)

1. FIX: Running `force:user:display` no longer generates this error:

   ```text
   ERROR: logger is not defined.
   ```

## 44.8.0 (November 20, 2018)

1. FIX: A Streaming API issue was affecting `apex:test:report`, `apex:test:run --wait`, and `org:create`. These commands now function properly.

## 44.7.0 (November 15, 2018)

1. NEW: You can now restrict access to an installed package to the administrator's profile and any profile with the Customize Application permission. By default, installed packages are accessible to all user profiles. Include the optional `-s | --securitytype` parameter when you run the `package:install` command. Possible values for `--securitytype` are `AllUsers` (the default) and `AdminsOnly`.

   ```bash
   sfdx force:package:install --securitytype AdminsOnly ...
   ```

1. NEW: The `mdapi:deploy` command offers a quick deploy option. This option deploys a recently validated set of components without running Apex tests. To use quick deploy, add the `-q | --validateddeployrequestid` parameter with a job ID value:

   ```bash
   sfdx force:mdapi:deploy --validateddeployrequestid &lt;JOBID&gt; ...
   ```

   You can run this option after you have run tests and performed a check-only deployment using the `-c | --checkonly` option:

   ```bash
   sfdx force:mdapi:deploy --checkonly ...
   ```

   The check-only option performs a test deployment (validation) of components without saving the components in the target org.

## 44.6.0 (November 8, 2018)

1. We didn't release a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 44.5.0 (November 1, 2018)

1. FIX: We fixed some minor under-the-hood bugs.

## 44.4.0 (October 25, 2018)

1. NEW: You can now cancel an in-progress metadata deployment by running `force:mdapi:deploy:cancel --jobid &lt;JOBID&gt;`.

## 44.3.0 (October 18, 2018)

1. CHANGE: We removed the deprecated `force:package2`, `package:install:get`, and `package:uninstall:get` commands from the CLI.
1. CHANGE: Some `force:package:install` parameters have changed. We removed the deprecated `-i | --id` parameter. We added the short flags `-b` for `--publishwait` and `-p` for `--package`.
1. CHANGE: We removed the deprecated `-i | --id` parameter for `force:package:uninstall`.
1. FIX: We fixed a bug where `data:soql:query` wasn't returning results in some cases.

## 44.2.0 (October 13, 2018)

Welcome to the first release of the Salesforce CLI v44 in Winter '19. We have several new commands and parameters, as well as some changes to existing commands and parameters. Here's what's changed.

### Uninstall the Pre-Release Version of the CLI

If you installed the pre-release version 44 of the CLI, uninstall it, then run the update command.

```bash
sfdx plugins:uninstall salesforcedx
sfdx update
```

### New Commands

These new commands are available in Salesforce CLI v44.

* `force:source:delete` (beta) Deletes metadata from a non-source-tracked org, such as a sandbox, and from your local project. You can indicate a comma-delimited list of local paths or of individual metadata components.
* `force:source:deploy` (beta) Deploys source from your project to a non-source-tracked org. Unlike the `force:source:push` command for scratch orgs (source-tracked orgs), you indicate the specific set of metadata to deploy. This command overwrites all corresponding metadata in the org with the deployed local files.
* `force:source:retrieve` (beta) Retrieves source from a non-source-tracked org to your project. Unlike the `force:source:pull` command for scratch orgs (source-tracked orgs), with `force:source:retrieve` you indicate the specific set of metadata to retrieve. This command overwrites all local files with the metadata retrieved from the org. The retrieved metadata is in source format.
The Scratch Org Snapshot commands are available as part of an invitation-only pilot in late October 2018.
* `force:org:snapshot:create` (pilot) Creates a snapshot of an existing scratch org to use as a basis for scratch org creations. A snapshot reflects the state of a scratch org when the snapshot is created. It contains scratch org shape information (edition, features, and licenses), installed packages, metadata, and test data.
* `force:org:snapshot:delete` (pilot) Deletes a snapshot.
* `force:org:snapshot:get` (pilot) Returns information for a specified snapshot.
* `force:org:snapshot:list` (pilot) Lists all snapshots associated with a Dev Hub.

### Changed Commands

The functionality for these commands changed in Salesforce CLI v44.

* `force:mdapi:convert` This command escapes double quotes when converting from metadata format to the source format.
* `force:package:install`, `force:package:uninstall` If you run these commands using the package version alias, you must run them from within a Salesforce DX project folder. If you specify the package version ID (which starts with 04t), you can run them outside of a DX project.
* `force:package:version:list` The output includes a new column that indicates whether the package version is protected by an installation key.
* `force:source:push` Deployment errors show the project path.
* `force:source:pull` If a metadata name has special characters (such as forward slashes, backslashes, or quotation marks), we encode the file name on the local file system for all operating systems. For example, if you pull a custom profile called `Custom: Marketing Profile`, the colon is encoded in the resulting file name.

   ```text
   Custom%3A Marketing Profile.profile-meta.xml
   ```

   If you reference a file name with special characters in `.forceignore`, use the encoded file name.
   If you use package version IDs instead of aliases, you can now use 04t package IDs for all `force:package:version` commands instead of a mix of 04t (subscriber package version) and 05i (package version) IDs. However, we strongly recommend using aliases for all `force:package` commands and in the `sfdx-project.json` file.

1. The output displays only the 04t IDs for `package:version:create`, `package:version:update`, `package:version:list`, and `package:version:report`.
1. You can use either 04t or 05i IDs when running `package:version:update`, `package:version:promote`, or `package:version:report`.
1. You can use either 04t or 05i IDs as the ancestor ID in the `sfdx-project.json` file.
1. You can view 05i IDs for `package:version:list` and `package:version:report` if you use the `--verbose` parameter.

### New Parameters

This command has a new parameter in Salesforce CLI v44.

* `force:project:create` Use the `--manifest | -x` parameter to generate a default manifest (`package.xml`) for fetching Apex, Visualforce, Lightning components, and static resources.

### Changed Parameters

These parameters have changed in Salesforce CLI v44.

* `force:package:create --path | -r` The `--path | -r` parameter is required. This parameter ignores trailing slashes. For example, the CLI treats both `force-app` and `force-app/` the same.
* `force:package:version:update` We renamed several parameters to make them consistent with the parameters for `force:package:version:create`.

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Previous Parameter</th><th>Current Parameter</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>`--name` or `-n`</td><td>`--versionname` or `-a`</td></tr>
<tr><td>`--description` or `-n`</td><td>`--versiondescription` or `-e`</td></tr>
<tr><td>`--package2versionid` or `-i`</td><td>`--package` or `-p`</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Package Version in Salesforce DX Project File

You can indicate a package version with a build number when defining a dependent package in the `sfdx-project.json` file. Previously, you had to indicate the `LATEST` keyword as the build number.

```json
"dependencies": [
   {
       "package": "0Hoxxx",
       "versionNumber": "1.1.0.3"
   }
]
```

### New Environment Variables

#### SFDX_MDAPI_TEMP_DIR

Normally, when you run some CLI commands, a temporary directory with all the metadata is created then deleted upon successful completion of the command. However, retaining these files can be useful for several reasons. You can debug problems that occur during command execution. You can use the generated `package.xml` when running subsequent commands, or as a starting point for creating a manifest that includes all the metadata you care about.

To retain all the metadata in a specified directory path when you run these commands, set the `SFDX_MDAPI_TEMP_DIR` environment variable:

1. `force:source:deploy`
1. `force:source:retrieve`
1. `force:source:delete`
1. `force:source:push`
1. `force:source:pull`
1. `force:source:convert`
1. `force:org:create` (if your scratch org definition contains scratch org settings, not org preferences)

Example:

```text
SFDX_MDAPI_TEMP_DIR=/users/myName/myDXProject/metadata
```

#### SFDX_JSON_TO_STDOUT

You can send Salesforce CLI error output to stdout by setting the `SFDX_JSON_TO_STDOUT` environment variable to `true`. By default, Salesforce CLI sends output to stdout when a command succeeds, and to stderr if a command fails. Setting this environment variable to `true` is particularly helpful for scripting use cases. We plan to send Salesforce CLI error output to stdout by default in CLI v45.
