# Salesforce CLI v45 Release Notes

Here are the new and changed features in recent updates of Salesforce CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx version` to display the version of Salesforce CLI installed on your computer. Run `sfdx plugins --core` to display the version of the installed `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx update` to update both the CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in to the latest available version.

**Note:** As a beta feature, second-generation managed packages and non-source-tracked org commands are a preview and aren't part of the "Services" under your master subscription agreement with Salesforce. Use these features at your sole discretion, and make your purchase decisions only on the basis of generally available products and features. Salesforce doesn't guarantee general availability of these features within any particular time frame or at all, and we can discontinue them at any time. These features are for evaluation purposes only, not for production use. They're offered as is and aren't supported, and Salesforce has no liability for any harm or damage arising out of or in connection with them. All restrictions, Salesforce reservation of rights, obligations concerning the Services, and terms for related Non-Salesforce Applications and Content apply equally to your use of these features. You can provide feedback and suggestions for second-generation managed packages in the [Packaging 2 Beta](https://success.salesforce.com/_ui/core/chatter/groups/GroupProfilePage?g=0F93A000000Lg5U) group in the Trailblazer Community. You can provide feedback and suggestions for non-source-tracked org commands in the [Salesforce DX](https://success.salesforce.com/_ui/core/chatter/groups/GroupProfilePage?g=0F93A000000HTp1) group in the Trailblazer Community.

**Note:** We provide Scratch Org Snapshot to selected customers through a pilot program that requires agreement to specific terms and conditions. To be nominated to participate in the program, contact Salesforce. Pilot programs are subject to change, and we can't guarantee acceptance. Scratch Org Snapshot isn't generally available unless or until Salesforce announces its general availability in documentation or in press releases or public statements. We can't guarantee general availability within any particular time frame or at all. Make your purchase decisions only on the basis of generally available products and features. For information on enabling this feature in your org, contact Salesforce.

[Click here for the v44 release notes.](v44.md)

## June 6, 2019

We aren't releasing a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 45.17.0 (May 30, 2019)

We aren't releasing a Salesforce CLI patch this week.
If you're attending TrailheaDX, stop by and see us at the Salesforce DX booths! If you can't make it in person, watch the live stream of the Salesforce &lt;3 DX session at 3:00 PM PST on Wednesday (May 29) to hear all about what we've been building: [https://www.salesforce.com/video/5646657](https://www.salesforce.com/video/5646657/).

## 45.16.0 (May 23, 2019)

1. FIX: We fixed some under-the-hood bugs.

## 45.15.6 (May 16, 2019)

1. FIX: After you create a scratch org with org preferences, the `force:source:pull` command no longer erroneously detects the `OrgPreference.settings-meta.xml` file as changed before any changes are made in a scratch org.

## 45.14.1 (May 9, 2019)

1. FIX: We fixed some under-the-hood bugs.

## 45.13.0 (May 2, 2019)

1. FIX: You no longer see the following error when retrieving a WaveTemplateBundle component using a manifest.

   ```text
   ERROR running force:source:retrieve: Cannot read property 'getWorkspaceElements' of undefined
   ```

## 45.12.0 (April 25, 2019)

1. CHANGE: We hid the `-c | --contenttype` parameter from `force:data:tree:import` because we support only one file type, JSON, so the parameter had no effect. If you happen to reference this parameter in a script, your script will continue to work. However, we suggest that you update your scripts to remove the hidden parameter, because we might remove it in the future.

## 45.11.1 (April 18, 2019)

### Install the Pre-Release Version of the CLI

Would you like to get a preview of and start trying out the changes we'll be releasing in June? Install the pre-release version of `salesforcedx` v46. We'll update the [Summer '19 Salesforce CLI release notes](http://releasenotes.docs.salesforce.com/en-us/summer19/release-notes/rn_sf_cli_nc.htm) (available on April 22, 2019) as we add new and changed commands and parameters.

```bash
sfdx plugins:install salesforcedx@pre-release
```

Make sure that you have the pre-release version.

```bash
sfdx plugins --core
salesforcedx 46.0.1-xx
```

When we officially release v46 on June 15, 2019, uninstall the pre-release, then update the CLI.

```bash
sfdx plugins:uninstall salesforcedx
sfdx update
```

### Other CLI Changes

1. FIX: We fixed some under-the-hood bugs.

## 45.10.1 (April 11, 2019)

1. CHANGE: The (all commands) `--loglevel` parameter temporarily supports uppercase parameter values in Spring '19 (`salesforcedx` v45). The oclif framework checks parameter values case-sensitively, and the official `--loglevel` values are lowercase. In Summer '19 (`salesforcedx` v46), we plan to support only lowercase `--loglevel` values and remove support for uppercase values.
1. FIX: You can use any capitalization scheme when creating a package alias. It doesn't need to be heads-down camelcase.
1. FIX: Running `force:source:push --json` returns warnings in an array, as it previously did in `sfdx-cli` v6.
1. FIX: Salesforce CLI reports an error if a data file contains invalid data when running `force:data:tree:import`.

## 45.9.0 (April 4, 2019)

1. CHANGE: The (all commands) `--loglevel` parameter supports parameter values in only lowercase (due to the migration to oclif). To assist you with the transition, we plan, in a future release, to enable support for uppercase parameters in Spring '19 but deprecate support in Summer '19.
1. FIX: The `force:data:bulk:upsert` command sets job statuses to `Closed` after processing all the records.
1. FIX: You can specify `-h` to view help for these commands:
   1. `data:soql:query`
   1. `apex:test:run`
   1. `apex:test:report`
   1. `lightning:test:run`

## 45.8.2 (March 28, 2019)

Salesforce CLI (`sfdx-cli`) v7 is bundled with the `salesforcedx` plug-in. Run `sfdx update` to install the new version. Use `sfdx plugins:install` only when installing a specific `salesforcedx` plug-in version.

If you see the error, `Error: Cannot find module '@oclif/config'`, uninstall the `salesforcedx` plug-in.

```bash
sfdx plugins:uninstall salesforcedx
```

1. FIX: The `force:mdapi:deploy` command correctly rolls back the deployment for any failure (by default).
1. FIX: You can indicate a `--plan` when running `force:data:tree:import`.

## 45.8.1 (March 28, 2019)

We have migrated Salesforce CLI to Heroku's Open CLI Framework (oclif). This framework fixes several long-standing issues with CLI updates, provides better CLI load times, and prepares us to incorporate important features in the future, like custom execution hooks and built-in autocompletion.

### Install a Previous Version of Salesforce CLI

By default, the latest version of the `salesforcedx` plug-in is installed when you install Salesforce CLI for the first time. You can install a previous version of the `salesforcedx` plug-in if your specific situation requires it.

1. Salesforce CLI v7 is required for `salesforcedx` plug-in version 45.8.0 or later.
1. Salesforce CLI v6 is required for `salesforcedx` plug-in version 45.5.0 or earlier.

Using npm:

```bash
npm install sfdx-cli@6 --global
```

Using the installer:

1. [Darwin (Linux)](https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx-cli/channels/stable/sfdx-cli-v6.56.0-e3fd846a1f.pkg)
1. [Linux 64 bit](https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx-cli/channels/stable/sfdx-cli-v6.56.0-e3fd846a1f-linux-x64.tar.xz)
1. [Linux 32 bit](https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx-cli/channels/stable/sfdx-cli-v6.56.0-e3fd846a1f-linux-x86.tar.xz)
1. [Linux ARM](https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx-cli/channels/stable/sfdx-cli-v6.56.0-e3fd846a1f-linux-arm.tar.xz)
1. [Windows 64 bit](https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx-cli/channels/stable/sfdx-cli-v6.56.0-e3fd846a1f-x64.exe)
1. [Windows 32 bit](https://developer.salesforce.com/media/salesforce-cli/sfdx-cli/channels/stable/sfdx-cli-v6.56.0-e3fd846a1f-x86.exe)

### Other CLI Changes

1. NEW: The `force:auth:list`command generates a list of usernames that you have authorized. This list is created from the usernames that are stored locally in your `.sfdx` directory. Unlike `force:org:list`, the `force:auth:list` command doesn't check whether the orgs associated with the usernames are still valid. So, the new command runs much more quickly.
1. CHANGE: Help output has a new look in v7 but works the same (by appending `--help` or `-h` to the end of a command). However, run `--help` for these commands (instead of `-h`). We plan to make `-h` work for these commands in a future release.
   1. `data:soql:query`
   1. `apex:test:run`
   1. `apex:test:report`
   1. `lightning:test:run`
1. CHANGE: We recently updated the default connected app. This change sometimes affects how `force:auth:sfdxurl:store` works during CI jobs. If you see an error (after upgrading to this CLI version) about an expired access/refresh token, regenerate the SFDX auth URL.
1. CHANGE: When you indicate `--json` output for a CLI command, the output is color-coded. If you see a parsing error on stdout, you can set this environment variable to turn it off:

   ```text
   FORCE_COLOR=0
   ```

1. CHANGE: The output for sfdx `force:doc:commands:display --json` has changed in v7. If you're processing the output for this command, compare the V6 output and update your code to reflect the new V7 JSON output.
1. FIX: When running the `force:data:tree:import` command, you can import objects with numbers in their namespaces.

## 45.7.0 (March 21, 2019)

We aren't releasing a patch this week. See 45.5.0 (March 7, 2019) for information about the migration to oclif.

## 45.6.0 (March 14, 2019)

We aren't releasing a patch this week. See 45.5.0 (March 7, 2019) for information about the migration to oclif.

## 45.5.0 (March 7, 2019)

We are migrating the `cli-engine` framework over to Heroku's Open CLI Framework (oclif) in the coming weeks. This migration is a major update for Salesforce CLI and our core plug-ins. To allow time for testing and to facilitate a smooth transition, we will not be releasing updates for the next 3 weeks. We plan to release our next update, v45.8.x of the `salesforcedx` aggregate plug-in and and v7.x.x of `sfdx-cli`, on Thursday, March 28, 2019.

We expect this change to improve the performance and reliability of Salesforce CLI and to help us add new functionality more quickly. Migrating Salesforce CLI to oclif will not change the way you interact with the CLI, and the `force` commands will work as they did before. **However, Salesforce CLI will NOT be backwards compatible with plug-ins built on the original CLI engine.** If the plug-in was created using Salesforce Plug-In Generator (`sfdx plugins:generate`), it will still work, because the generator already uses oclif. To learn more about oclif, you can visit their [website](https://oclif.io/).

1. FIX: To address the dependency on the natural-orderby library when running the `plugins:link` command, we now bundle Node.js v8.15.1 with Salesforce CLI.
1. FIX: The SFDX_NPM_REGISTRY environment variable now recognizes the full URL, and not just the domain. However, we support only repositories that don't require authentication.
1. FIX: The `force:data:bulk:upsert` command correctly parses line breaks in CSV files.

## 45.4.1 (February 28, 2019)

1. NEW: The `force:mdapi:listmetadata` command displays properties of metadata components of a specified type. This call is useful when you want to identify individual components in your manifest file or want a high-level view of particular components in your organization. This command is similar to the Metadata API utility call [listMetadata()](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_meta.meta/api_meta/meta_listmetadata.htm).
1. FIX: You can now retrieve specific Lightning web components to your local project on a Windows machine using `force:source:retrieve`.

   ```json
   sfdx force:source:retrieve -m LightningComponentBundle:helloworld
   ```

## 45.3.1 (February 21, 2019)

1. NEW: The `force:project:create --template` parameter now accepts the values empty and standard. Using a `--template` value takes the guesswork out of the Salesforce DX project structure. For Spring '19, the default is empty, which provides a minimal amount of scaffolding (maintaining the command's previous behavior). In Summer '19, the default will be standard, which provides extended scaffolding to facilitate pushing and pulling source to and from your scratch org (especially helpful if you use Salesforce Extensions for VS Code).
Selecting the standard value also adds these files:

1. `.vscode/extensions.json`: Causes Visual Studio Code, when launched, to prompt you to install the recommended extensions for your project.
1. `.vscode/settings.json`: By default, this file has one setting, for push or deploy on save, which is set to false. You can change this value or add other settings.
1. `.vscode/launch.json`: Configures Replay Debugger, making it more discoverable and easier to use.
1. `.gitignore`: Makes it easier to start using Git for version control.
1. `.prettierrc` and `.prettierignore`: Make it easier to start using Prettier to format your Aura components. Support for Lightning web components in Prettier is coming soon.

1. FIX: You can retrieve all Lightning web component resources to your local project on a Windows machine using `force:source:retrieve`.

   ```bash
   sfdx force:source:retrieve -m LightningComponentBundle
   ```

## 45.2.0 (February 14, 2019)

1. NEW: The `force:mdapi:describemetadata` command displays details about metadata types enabled for your org. Use this information to identify the syntax needed for a `&lt;name&gt;` element in `package.xml`. The most recent API version is the default, or you can specify an older version. This command is similar to the Metadata API utility call [describeMetadata()](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_meta.meta/api_meta/meta_describe.htm).

## 45.1.2 (February 9, 2019)

Welcome to the first release of version 45 of the `salesforcedx` plug-in for Salesforce CLI in Spring '19. Here's what's changed.

### Uninstall the Pre-Release Version of the `salesforcedx` CLI Plug-In

If you installed the pre-release version 45 of the `salesforcedx` plug-in, uninstall it, then run the update command.

```bash
sfdx plugins:uninstall salesforcedx
sfdx update
```

### Build Your Own Salesforce CLI Plug-In with Open-Source Tools

Plug-ins add functionality to Salesforce CLI. Salesforce includes several plug-ins when you install the CLI that provide commands and functionality to meet common needs that customers and partners have. You can also choose to install other plug-ins built by Salesforce and others. But when you have requirements that existing plug-ins don't meet, Salesforce Plug-In Generator simplifies building your own using Node.js. Salesforce Plug-In Generator and the CLI `@salesforce/core` and `@salesforce/command` libraries are open source.

Changes to Salesforce Plug-In Generator are released regularly. For information about weekly releases, see the [change log](https://github.com/forcedotcom/sfdx-plugin-generate/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

For information about using Salesforce Plug-In Generator to create your own plug-in, check out the [Salesforce CLI Plug-In Developer Guide](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_cli_plugins.meta/sfdx_cli_plugins). For useful resources, such as the open-source repositories for the plug-in generator and its dependencies, see the guide's [Resources for Salesforce CLI Plug-In Development](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_cli_plugins.meta/sfdx_cli_plugins/cli_plugins_resources.htm).

### New Commands

These new commands are available in `salesforcedx` v45.

* `force:mdapi:deploy:cancel`: Cancels an in-progress metadata deployment.

### New Parameters

This command has a new parameter in `salesforcedx` v45.

* `force:lightning:component:create --type`: Specifies whether to create an Aura component (`--type aura`, the default) or a Lightning web component (`--type lwc`).
