# Salesforce CLI v46 Release Notes

Here are the new and changed features in recent updates of Salesforce CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx version` to display the version of Salesforce CLI installed on your computer. Run `sfdx plugins --core` to display the version of the installed `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx update` to update both the CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in to the latest available version.

**Note:** As a beta feature, second-generation managed packages are a preview and aren't part of the "Services" under your master subscription agreement with Salesforce. Use this feature at your sole discretion, and make your purchase decisions only on the basis of generally available products and features. Salesforce doesn't guarantee general availability of this feature within any particular time frame or at all, and we can discontinue them at any time. This feature is for evaluation purposes only, not for production use. It's offered as is and isn't supported, and Salesforce has no liability for any harm or damage arising out of or in connection with it. All restrictions, Salesforce reservation of rights, obligations concerning the Services, and terms for related Non-Salesforce Applications and Content apply equally to your use of this feature. You can provide feedback and suggestions for second-generation managed packages in the [Packaging 2 Beta](https://success.salesforce.com/_ui/core/chatter/groups/GroupProfilePage?g=0F93A000000Lg5U) group in the Trailblazer Community.

[Click here for the v45 release notes.](./v45.md)

## 46.18.0 (October 10, 2019)

We aren't releasing a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 46.17.0 (October 3, 2019)

1. FIX: If you delete a custom label in a scratch org, the `force:source:status` command recognizes the remote change.
1. FIX: On Windows, when running `force:source:push` on a Lightning web component that contains an error, the command identifies which file is causing the error.

## 46.16.0 (September 26, 2019)

1. FIX: A remote, deleted custom label is included in the output when you run `force:source:status`.
1. FIX: The `force:source:retrieve -p` parameter retrieves an individual file from within an Aura definition bundle.

## 46.15.3 (September 19, 2019)

1. FIX: On macOS, the temporary zip file created when running `force:source:push`, `force:source:deploy`, or `force:mdapi:deploy` once again contains files that are symbolically linked.
1. FIX: The `force:source:delete` command doesn't delete the specified metadata, as expected, if you cancel the operation when prompted by specifying no (`n`).
1. FIX: We've reduced the time it takes to deploy a large set of metadata using `force:source:deploy`.

## 46.14.0 (September 12, 2019)

We aren't releasing a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 46.13.0 (September 5, 2019)

1. FIX: You can use `force:source:deploy` to deploy SharingRules metadata.

## 46.12.1 (August 28, 2019)

**Note:** The `force:auth:device:login` command is in beta and has been released early so we can collect your feedback. It may contain significant problems, undergo major changes, or be discontinued. If you encounter any problems, or want to request an enhancement, open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode/issues/new). The use of this feature is governed by the [Salesforce.com Program Agreement](https://trailblazer.me/resource/documents/documents/pdf/TermsOfUse_en_US.pdf).

1. NEW: Source tracking is supported for Einstein Bots metadata in scratch orgs. You can now track changes and sync source between your local DX project and scratch orgs using `source:status`, `source:push`, and `source:pull`.
1. NEW: The `force:auth:device:login` command (beta) authorizes an org using a device code. This means that you can use Salesforce CLI to authenticate in a Docker container or any headless environment without setting up JWT. For more information, see [OAuth 2.0 Device Authentication Flow](https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=remoteaccess_oauth_device_flow.htm&amp;type=5) in Salesforce Help or [Remote Development](https://forcedotcom.github.io/salesforcedx-vscode/articles/user-guide/remote-development) in the **Salesforce Extensions for Visual Studio Code User Guide**.
1. FIX: When running Salesforce CLI on Windows, you can use `source:push` and `source:pull` to sync Enterprise Territory Management (also known as Territory2) metadata between your local DX project and a scratch org.

## 46.11.0 (August 22, 2019)

1. FIX: We fixed some under-the-hood bugs.

## 46.10.1 (August 15, 2019)

### Install the Pre-Release Version of the CLI

Would you like to get a preview of and start trying out the changes we'll be releasing in October? Install the pre-release version of `salesforcedx` v47. We'll update the [Winter '20 Salesforce CLI release notes](http://releasenotes.docs.salesforce.com/en-us/winter20/release-notes/rn_sf_cli_nc.htm) (available on August 19, 2019) as we add new and changed commands and parameters.

```bash
sfdx plugins:install salesforcedx@pre-release
```

Make sure that you have the pre-release version.

```bash
sfdx plugins --core
salesforcedx 47.0.1-xx
```

When we officially release v47 on October 12, 2019, uninstall the pre-release, then update the CLI.

```bash
sfdx plugins:uninstall salesforcedx
sfdx update
```

### This Week's CLI Changes for 46.10.1

1. FIX: You can use the same name for a Salesforce DX project and Lightning web component.
1. FIX: The `--wait` parameter now works correctly when running `force:org:create`.
1. FIX: On Windows, the `force:source:deploy -x` command deploys the Folder metadata type.
1. FIX: The `force:source:pull` command recognizes when you delete a custom field on a standard object, and deletes the custom field in your local project.

## 46.9.0 (August 8, 2019)

1. CHANGE: The CLI's autoupdate functionality isn't currently working. To get new versions of Salesforce CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in, run:

   ```bash
   sfdx update
   ```

1. FIX: When working with reports and dashboards in folders that are within other report and dashboard folders, you can now run `source:push`, `source:pull`, `source:deploy`, `source:retrieve`, and `source:convert` successfully.
1. FIX: The `force:mdapi:convert` command now works for Lightning web components.

## 46.8.0 (August 1, 2019)

We aren't releasing a Salesforce CLI patch this week. (We expect the changes that were previously listed as going out on August 1, 2019, to go out on August 8, 2019.)

## 46.7.0 (July 25, 2019)

We aren't releasing a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 46.6.0 (July 18, 2019)

1. NEW: You can delete a sandbox created by the CLI. Previously, you could delete only scratch orgs using this command.

   ```bash
   sfdx force:org:delete -u MyDevSandbox
   ```

   **Warning:** We don't provide a prompt when you delete a sandbox, but we plan to add that functionality in a future release.

## 46.5.0 (July 11, 2019)

We aren't releasing a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 46.4.0 (July 3, 2019)

1. FIX: The @salesforce/core library (`AuthInfo.getSfdxAuthUrl`) returned the incorrect SFDX auth URL. It now returns the same SFDX auth URL as the `force:org:display --verbose` command.

## 46.3.0 (June 27, 2019)

1. FIX: We fixed some under-the-hood bugs.

## 46.2.3 (June 20, 2019)

1. FIX: The `force:source:deploy` command once again displays specific information if a deployment fails instead of a generic error message.

## 46.1.5 (June 15, 2019)

Welcome to the first release of version 46 of the `salesforcedx` plug-in for Salesforce CLI in Summer '19. Here's what's changed.

### Installation Notes

We're still working on creating `salesforcedx` v46 installers. However, you can easily update Salesforce CLI to v46 by running `sfdx update` or any CLI command. If you are installing Salesforce CLI for the first time, see [Install Salesforce CLI](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_setup.meta/sfdx_setup/sfdx_setup_install_cli.htm#sfdx_setup_install_cli) to install the CLI for your operating system, then run `sfdx update`.

### Uninstall the Pre-Release Version of the `salesforcedx` CLI Plug-In

If you installed the pre-release version 46 of the `salesforcedx` plug-in, uninstall it, then run the update command.

```bash
sfdx plugins:uninstall salesforcedx
sfdx update
```

### New Commands

These new commands are available in `salesforcedx` v46.

* `force:package:hammertest:list` (Pilot): Lists the statuses of running and completed ISV Hammer tests.
* `force:package:hammertest:report` (Pilot): Returns the status of a running ISV Hammer test or the results of a completed hammer test.
* `force:package:hammertest:run` (Pilot): Runs ISV Hammer for the specified package version and subscriber orgs.
* `force:org:clone` (Beta): Clones a sandbox org using values specified in a configuration file or key=value pairs that you specify on the command line. Values specified on the command line override values in the configuration file.
* `force:org:status` (Beta): Reports sandbox org creation status. If the org is ready, authenticates to the org.
* `force:source:deploy:cancel`: Cancels a source deployment. If you include `--wait 0`, it runs the command asychronously and immediately returns the job ID.
* `force:source:deploy:report`: Checks the status of a source deployment. If you don't supply a job ID, returns the status of the most recent deployment job.
* `force:source:retrieve:report`: Checks the status of a source retrieval. If you don't supply a job ID, returns the status of the most recent retrieval job.

### New Parameters

These parameters are new in `salesforcedx` v46.
`force:org:create --type | -t`: The type of org to create. If a parameter isn't provided, the default is a scratch org. Use sandbox to create a sandbox org (available as a beta release). Provide sandbox properties (see the SandboxInfo object) as key=value pairs or in a sandbox org definition file. This command references a definition file.

```bash
sfdx force:org:create -t sandbox -f config/mysbxconfig.json
```

Here's what the sandbox org definition JSON file mysbxconfig.json looks like.

```json
{
  "sandboxName": "MySandbox",
  "licenseType": "Developer"
}
```

* `force:org:create --targetusername | -u`: A username for the production org to receive the sandbox request (available as a beta release). If a parameter isn't provided, the defaultusername value is used.
* `force:package:install --apexcompile | -a`: For unlocked packages only, specifies whether to compile all Apex in the org and package (`--apexcompile all`), or only the Apex in the package (`--apexcompile package`).
* `force:source:deploy`: We added several parameters to make this command consistent with `mdapi:deploy`.

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Parameter</th><th>Description</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>`--checkonly` (`-c`)</td><td>Validates the deployed metadata and runs all Apex tests, but prevents the deployment from being saved to the org.</td></tr>
<tr><td>`--ignoreerrors` (`-o`)</td><td>Ignores the deploy errors, and continues with the deploy operation. The default is false. Keep this parameter set to false when deploying to a production org. If set to true, components without errors are deployed, and components with errors are skipped.</td></tr>
<tr><td>`--ignorewarnings` (`-g`)</td><td>If a warning occurs and `--ignorewarnings` is set to true, the success field in DeployMessage is true. When `--ignorewarnings` is set to false, success is set to false, and the warning is treated like an error.</td></tr>
<tr><td>`--runtests` (`-r`) `RUNTESTS`</td><td>Lists the Apex classes containing the deployment tests to run. Use this parameter when you set `--testlevel` to `RunSpecifiedTests`.</td></tr>
<tr><td>`--testlevel` (`-l`) `TESTLEVEL`</td><td>Specifies which level of deployment tests to run. Valid values are `NoTestRun`, `RunSpecifiedTests`, `RunLocalTests`, and `RunAllTestsInOrg`.</td></tr>
<tr><td>`--validatedeployrequestid` (`-q`) `REQUESTID`</td><td>Deploys a recently validated set of metadata without the need to rerun the tests.</td></tr>
<tr><td>`--verbose`</td><td>Indicates that you want verbose output from the deploy operation.</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

* `force:source:retrieve`: We added several parameters to make this command consistent with `mdapi:retrieve`.

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Parameter</th><th>Description</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>`--apiversion` (`-a`) `APIVERSION`</td><td>Use to override the default, which is the latest version supported by your CLI plug-in.</td></tr>
<tr><td>`--packagenames` (`-n`) `PACKAGENAMES`</td><td>A comma-separated list of package names to retrieve. You can use this parameter with other parameters to determine the complete set of metadata to retrieve. You can specify `--packagenames` as the only scoping parameter, or you can specify both `--packagenames` and one of the other scoping parameters: `--metadata`, `--sourcepath`, or `--manifest`.</td></tr>
<tr><td>`--verbose`</td><td>Indicates that you want verbose output from the retrieve operation.</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Changed Parameters

This parameter has changed in `salesforcedx` v46.

* `force:package:install --upgradetype | -t`: This parameter has a new permissible value: `Delete`.

For package upgrades, this parameter specifies whether to mark all removed components as deprecated (`--upgradetype DeprecateOnly`), to delete removed components that can be safely deleted and deprecate the others (`--upgradetype Mixed`), or to delete all removed components, except for custom objects and custom fields, that don't have dependencies (`--upgradetype Delete`).

### Deprecated Parameters

These parameters, which were previously marked as deprecated, were removed in `salesforcedx` v46.

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th>Command</th><th>Deprecated Parameters</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td>`force:mdapi:deploy`</td><td>`--jobid` (`-i`); Use `sfdx force:mdapi:deploy:report -i` **jobId** instead</td></tr>
<tr><td>`force:mdapi:deploy`</td><td>`--rollbackonerror` (`-e`); Use `--ignoreerrors` (`-o`) instead</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
