# Salesforce CLI v47 Release Notes

Here are the new and changed features in recent updates of Salesforce CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx version` to display the version of Salesforce CLI installed on your computer. Run `sfdx plugins --core` to display the version of the installed `salesforcedx` plug-in.

Run `sfdx update` to update both the CLI and the `salesforcedx` plug-in to the latest available version.

[Click here for the v46 release notes.](./v46.md)

## 47.18.0 (February 6, 2020)

1. FIX: We fixed various issues with the progress bar that displays when you run `force:source:deploy`, `force:source:push`, or `force:mdapi:deploy`. The progress bar now outputs to `stderr` instead of `stdout`.

   You can remove the progress bar and instead see a readout of progress using either method:

   1. To set globally, use the environment variable: `SFDX_USE_PROGRESS_BAR=false`.
   1. To set for a single command: `SFDX_USE_PROGRESS_BAR=false sfdx force:source:deploy`.

## 47.17.0 (January 30, 2020)

1. FIX: We fixed some minor under-the-hood bugs.

## 47.16.0 (January 23, 2020)

1. FIX: We fixed the `MaxListenersExceededWarning` bug.
1. FIX: When running `force:project:create`, duplicate folder structures are no longer created.
1. FIX: When running `-h | --help` on the templates commands, the default value for the `outputDir` flag accurately states the current working directory.

## 47.15.0 (January 16, 2020)

1. NEW: We provide two options to opt out of telemetry. Run `force:config:set disableTelemetry=true` or set the `SFDX_DISABLE_TELEMETRY` environment variable to true.
1. FIX: When using the `-x` parameter with `force:source:retrieve`, static resources are retrieved correctly.
1. FIX: Running `force:apex:execute` with the JSON flag (--json) displays the correct output.

## 47.14.0 (January 9, 2020)

1. NEW: When running `force:mdapi:deploy`, `force:source:deploy`, or `force:source:push`,  we display a progress bar to highlight the start and completion of the command.
1. NEW: We've added a `--checkonly | -c` parameter to the `force:source:delete` command. This parameter allows you to validate your `source:delete` before deleting metadata.
1. NEW: We've released a new autocomplete feature. Once installed, you can type a command and then press Tab to autocomplete a partially typed command, or press Tab to see all the available commands. If there are no matching commands or parameters to return, pressing Tab autocompletes the file path in your current directory.

   **Note**: Autocomplete is not currently available on Windows.

   To install this feature, follow these steps:

   1. Make sure you're on the latest version of the CLI.
   1. Run `sfdx plugins:install @oclif/plugin-autocomplete`.
   1. Run `sfdx autocomplete`, then follow the displayed instructions.

1. NEW: We've added a new command, `force:analytics:template:create`, which allows you to create a simple analytics template in a specified directory.
1. CHANGE: Commands run against a scratch org complete successfully regardless of the location of the JWT key file (server.key) used to authorize the Dev Hub org.
1. FIX: Running `force:apex:test:run` with or without a JWT key file (server.key) works as expected.
1. FIX: When updating the CLI to the latest version, you no longer see a `MaxListernersExceededWarning` message.
1. FIX: When running `force:source:deploy`, static resource zip files are automatically deleted from the temp directory.

## 47.13.0 (January 2, 2020)

We aren't releasing a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 47.12.0 (December 26, 2019)

We aren't releasing a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 47.11.0 (December 19, 2019)

We aren't releasing a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 47.10.9 (December 12, 2019)

1. FIX: When running `force:source:deploy`, you can specify the name of a CustomLabel within the package manifest.
1. FIX: The `force:config:set` command displays the correct error message in Salesforce Extensions for VS Code.

## 47.9.0 (December 5, 2019)

1. FIX: When running `force:mdapi:convert --metadata`, you can now pass a comma-separated list of metadata types.

## 47.8.0 (November 28, 2019)

We aren't releasing a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 47.7.0 (November 21, 2019)

We aren't releasing a Salesforce CLI patch this week.

## 47.6.2 (November 14, 2019)

1. NEW: We added SOQL and Apex files to the standard template for a DX project when you run `sfdx force:project:create`.
1. CHANGE: When you create a project, the `sourceApiVersion` in the `sfdx-project.json` file is now the same as the CLI version.
1. FIX: We made some updates to the `salesforcedx-templates` to address security issues.
1. FIX: The `--componentname` parameter for the `lightning:app:create` and `visualforce:component:create` commands follows the Lightning web component naming conventions. It uses lower camel case for component file names and upper camel case for JavaScript class names.
1. FIX: The `sfdx force:source:pull` command supports the Workflow metadata type.

## 47.5.0 (November 7, 2019)

1. FIX: We made some updates to the JSforce library to address security issues.
1. FIX: When running `force:project:create`, project names can include special characters. To use a reserved character in the project name, surround the project name in quotation marks:

   ```bash
   sfdx force:project:create -n "test&amp;project"
   sfdx force:project:create -n "\\testproject?"
   ```

## 47.4.0 (October 31, 2019)

1. CHANGE: Due to framework changes in the `salesforcedx` plug-in, the `-a` short version of the `--apiversion` parameter is no longer available for these commands:

   1. `force:apex:class:create`
   1. `force:apex:trigger:create`
   1. `force:lightning:app:create`
   1. `force:lightning:component:create`
   1. `force:lightning:event:create`
   1. `force:lightning:interface:create`
   1. `force:visualforce:component:create`
   1. `force:visualforce:page:create`

1. FIX: When an alias for a username exists, running `force:auth:list` displays the username and the alias. If no alias exists, the command returns only the username.
1. FIX: When deploying metadata to an org, running `force:mdapi:deploy` with the `validateddeployrequestid` option now completes without errors.

## 47.3.7 (October 24, 2019)

1. CHANGE: We've added new parameters to the `force:source:convert` and `force:mdapi:convert` commands: `-x | --manifest`, `-m | --metadata`, and `-p | --sourcepath`.
1. FIX: OrgPreferenceSettings now work again when creating a scratch org. See the [Metadata API Guide](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.api_meta.meta/api_meta/meta_orgpreferencesettings.htm) for a full list of deprecated OrgPreferenceSettings. You'll need to update your scratch org definition to use the associated Setting when Spring '20 (CLI v48) releases.

## 47.2.0 (October 17, 2019)

We didn't release a CLI patch this week.

## 47.1.5 (October 10, 2019)

Welcome to the first release of version 47 of the `salesforcedx` plug-in for Salesforce CLI in Winter '20. Here's what's changed:

1. FIX: When the `force:org:create` command encounters signup errors, Salesforce CLI no longer hangs.
1. FIX: When the `force:org:create` command encounters problems with streaming, it fails over to the polling client, and the command timeout default (or the `--wait` parameter value) is now honored.
1. FIX: When deploying ExperienceBundle metadata, `source:pull` and `source:status` recognize the remote changes.
1. FIX: When running Salesforce CLI on Windows, run either `sfdx force:source:retrieve -x package.xml` or `sfdx force:source:retrieve -m Dashboard:Dashboard_Folder/Dashboard_Name` to retrieve your dashboard. If you plan to retrieve using a manifest, make sure to add dashboards to your `package.xml`.
1. FIX: Running `force:source:delete` deletes an entire directory. To delete an individual file, delete it from your local DX project, then use `force:source:push` (for scratch orgs) or `force:source:deploy` to update the static resource in the target org.
1. CHANGE: The S1DesktopEnabled setting is automatically enabled when you create a scratch org. We removed the setting from the sample scratch org definition file when you create a project using `force:project:create`.

### Installation Notes

We're still working on creating `salesforcedx` v47 installers. However, you can easily update Salesforce CLI to v47 by running `sfdx update` or any CLI command. If you are installing Salesforce CLI for the first time, see [Install Salesforce CLI](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.sfdx_setup.meta/sfdx_setup/sfdx_setup_install_cli.htm#sfdx_setup_install_cli) to install the CLI for your operating system, then run `sfdx update`.

### Uninstall the Pre-Release Version of the `salesforcedx` CLI Plug-In

If you installed the pre-release version 47 of the `salesforcedx` plug-in, uninstall it, then run the update command.

```bash
sfdx plugins:uninstall salesforcedx
sfdx update
```

### ISV Hammer Commands Now in Beta

These new commands are now available in `salesforcedx` v47 (beta).

* `force:package:hammertest:list`: Lists the statuses of running and completed ISV Hammer tests.
* `force:package:hammertest:report`: Returns the status of a running ISV Hammer test or the results of a completed hammer test.
* `force:package:hammertest:run`: Runs ISV Hammer for the specified package version and subscriber orgs.

**Note**: As a beta feature, ISV Hammer is a preview and isn’t part of the “Services” under your master subscription agreement with Salesforce. Use this feature at your sole discretion, and make your purchase decisions only on the basis of generally available products and features. Salesforce doesn’t guarantee general availability of this feature within any particular time frame or at all, and we can discontinue it at any time. This feature is for evaluation purposes only, not for production use. It’s offered as is and isn’t supported, and Salesforce has no liability for any harm or damage arising out of or in connection with it. All restrictions, Salesforce reservation of rights, obligations concerning the Services, and terms for related Non-Salesforce Applications and Content apply equally to your use of this feature. You can provide feedback and suggestions for this feature in the ISV Hammer group in the [Trailblazer Community](https://success.salesforce.com/loginswitcher?startURL=%2F_ui%2Fcore%2Fchatter%2Fgroups%2FGroupProfilePage%3Fg%3D0F93A000000DN6T).

### New Commands

These new commands are available in `salesforcedx` v47.

* `force:auth:device:login`(beta). You can authorize an org using a device code. This means that you can use Salesforce CLI to authenticate in a Docker container or any headless environment without setting up JWT. For more information, see [OAuth 2.0 Device Authentication Flow](https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=remoteaccess_oauth_device_flow.htm&amp;type=5) in Salesforce Help or [Remote Development](https://developer.salesforce.com/tools/vscode/articles/user-guide/remote-development) in the **Salesforce Extensions for Visual Studio Code User Guide**.

**Note**: The `force:auth:device:login` command is in beta and has been released early so we can collect your feedback. It may contain significant problems, undergo major changes, or be discontinued. If you encounter any problems, or want to request an enhancement, open a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/login?return_to=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fforcedotcom%2Fsalesforcedx-vscode%2Fissues%2Fnew). The use of this feature is governed by the [Salesforce.com Program Agreement](https://trailblazer.me/resource/documents/documents/pdf/TermsOfUse_en_US.pdf).

### New Parameters

These parameters are new in `salesforcedx` v47.

* `force:package:hammertest:run --apextestinterface | -n` (beta). After upgrade validation, runs the Apex tests in the subscriber org that implement this interface.
* `force:package:version:create`. We added several parameters to this command:

<table>
<thead>
<tr><th style="text-align:left">Parameter</th><th style="text-align:left">Description</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr><td style="text-align:left">`--codecoverage`</td><td style="text-align:left">Calculates and stores the code coverage percentage by running the Apex tests included in the package version. To promote a new managed package version to the released state, the code coverage minimum must be met.</td></tr>
<tr><td style="text-align:left">`--postinstallscript`</td><td style="text-align:left">For managed packages only, specifies an Apex script to run automatically in the subscriber org after the managed package is installed or upgraded.</td></tr>
<tr><td style="text-align:left">`--postinstallurl`</td><td style="text-align:left">Specifies a URL to post-install instructions for subscribers.</td></tr>
<tr><td style="text-align:left">`--releasenotesurl`</td><td style="text-align:left">Specifies a URL to release notes.</td></tr>
<tr><td style="text-align:left">`--uninstallscript`</td><td style="text-align:left">For managed packages only, specifies an Apex script to run automatically in the subscriber org before the managed package is uninstalled.</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Changed Commands

The functionality for these commands changed in weekly releases of `salesforcedx` v46 or in the pre-release of v47.

* `force:org:delete -u MyDevSandbox`. Deleting a sandbox created by the CLI is now supported.
* `force:package:install --securitytype | -s`. We changed the default value changed from AllUsers to AdminsOnly.
* `force:source:status`, `force:source:push`, `force:source:pull`. Source tracking is supported for Einstein Bots metadata in scratch orgs.
